So I'll just start with talking about
myself a little bit, just sort of to put
this into context, what kind of work I'm
doing and why I'm interested in this.
So I'm an artist living in London,
I'm from Canada.
And I've been coding creatively,
I guess you could say for many years for
several years.
And in the last maybe seven or
eight years I've been interested in
generative art specifically, but
always in a sort of wide array of things.
So it always looks kind of like this,
the kind of work that I'm interested in.
Where on one side we have some code and
on the other, we have some sort of output.
Typically it's images, but
a lot of the work I've been doing has also
been audio based or audio visually based.
So, most of it is really sketching,
sort of just creating imagery,
creating prints sometimes
Animation sometimes as well.
And also sometimes bringing that into
like more physical tangible space for
example using mechanical pen plotters
like this or creating work like this.
And for those of you who might have seen
my work in the other front end masters
course.
I've been talking quite a lot
about creative coding and
generative art and how to use code
to produce these kinds of images.
But today I wanted to talk a little bit
more about audio and get into that.
But before that I'll just keep
running through some of my work and
this is more recent.
It's just exploring more of these kinds
of forms and shapes and colors, and
trying to put them into this very rich
kind of landscape of work from code.
So this is just me running through
just some of the work I've done.
But now, kind of bringing it
back into context of audio and
some of the audio visual work I've done.
This was an installation I did in 2019,
which was part of a winter lights
festival in Iceland and it's running on
building and I'll show a little video.
But it's running entirely just with
JavaScript using the Canvas API to render
the graphics, but then using
Web Audio to Play the actual audio.
And the Web Audio that's being used
here is also feeding back into
the visuals that
are happening on the screen.
So it's using a bit of visualization
here as well, I'll just play it.
[MUSIC]
So I like to show that one just because
a lot of times when we think of Web Audio,
we think of just the browser.
But we can also take
the applications we're building and
pull them out of the browser and
put them into a physical space.
Or we can just continue to keep it all in
browser like this game Wayfinder that I
also produced this year.
I developed this with national film
board of Canada and it's using,as you
can see a lot of these rich visuals, but
also a huge part of the game is audio.
And creating these layered ambiance
sort of sounds that are constantly
reacting to your movements and
you hitting objects in the game.
And you interact with different
aspects of the game so
that's Way finder you can
check that online as well.
And then bringing it back to some of the
older work that I've done this is audio
graph, this is kind of where my journey
in audio started I guess on the web.
I'll actually just open
the link here to show you.
This was kind of my first foray into like
this kind of space of Web Audio, and
the idea was to create a visualizer very
minimalistic sort of site where all
you need to do is just open the page.
And you just hit the space bar,
to load up a track.
[MUSIC]
And then, you can just hit the space
bar again, to load the next track.
[MUSIC]
And so on, and so forth.
And the artwork is constantly random,
constantly changing and
reacting to the audio that's playing
this pilot priest that's playing.
[MUSIC]
So, that's sort of like a bit of
an overview just a few of the things
I've done related to web audio but
also unrelated to Web Audio I just
wanna show a couple examples
of other work that I've seen.
It's kind of inspiring or interesting or
within this scope of Web Audio.
One of the things I really
love to show all the time
is Jono Brando's Patnitop which is
this really fun website patnitop.com.
The idea here yet, the idea here
is you just smash your keyboard.
[MUSIC]
And it creates this really interesting
sort of audio visual experience,
it's as if you've got a drum kit and
you're not just playing sound, but
also hearing that and seeing that as well.
[MUSIC]
And just one other little funny experiment
that I like to show as well with
web audio is blob opera by Google arts and
culture developed by David Lee.
And this is using Web Audio to its
fullest really where of course there's
a lot of this 3D Web GL sort of beautiful
visuals and physics and things.
But it's synthesizing audio
here in real time and
allowing you to manipulate
it in a very fun way.
[MUSIC]
Yeah, so
that's really fun to play with but
also just like such a technical marvel
that they were able to create something.
That is really powerful just from
this Web audio API just synthesizing
audio as if it's a voice.